- [[RUL3 - Love bad news. Always question to falsify your idea and theory. Invalidate ASAP. How fast you can invalidate matters as much as how fast you can build them. Rule out bad explanations.]]
	- [[1-1c4a Because you will be and want to be mistaken, by default you should be long optionality]]

- [[1-1a5b4.3 build-launch-measure-learn and iterate - don't restart]]
	- [[6-3b2a Interoperability implies compounding]]

- To increase your curiosity is to indulge it, by investigating things you're interested in. Curiosity is unlike most other5 appetites in this respect: indulging it tends to increase rather than sate it. Questions lead to more questions. #develop
	- [[2-1a7 'Curiosity instinct' - Curiosity alone can drive humans into ideas without any (at least obvious) financial incentives]]
		- It gets easier, as it were!
			- [[5-1b1b1a1 Things can become easier the more complexity you have (Network effects = Power-law)]]
				- [[5-1b1b1a3 Network effects (digital) ＞ Supply and demand (physical)]]
					- [[6-3b2e Network effects + Feedback loops + Composability = Exponential growth]]
						- [[2-1a3.2 Curiosity begets both network effects and feedback loops]]

- [[1-1a5b4.4 Real-time calibration (i.e., recalibration) lets you adapt to the changing landscape]]
	- [[1-1a5b4.5 Our eyes produce clarity through a perpetual process of adjustment]]

- [[9-4b3a Write a bad version 1.0 as fast as you can]]
	- Paul Graham's emphasis on writing is generalized to his basic stance where he repeatedly push startup founders to launch version 1.0 products as soon as possible. The reality of both writing something and launching product he says has many things in common.
		- [[9-1b0c Reality doesn't differentiate reading-thinking-writing-playing-doing-investing-building]]

- The longer and slower the interval, you don't see the result, and it adds up (think of bad habits)
	- [[2-1a1a4b Compounding is usually too slow to notice, making it easier to discount both how much progress and catastrophe are achievable]]
	- [[5-1b4b Compounding is usually too slow to notice. You have to be deliberate in how you think and what you see.]]

- [[2-1a3.3 負もフィードバックする]]
	- Beware that in some cases we can tweak (and delay) feedback loops (e.g., current financial market) - i.e., 負のフィードバック
		- [[11-3 資本主義が自慢する「合理性」には、必ずや「ゆらぎ」「欠陥」「誤謬」「たまたま」が巣くっている]]

- Beware of our biological default
	- [[2-1a1a1a 'Self-preservation' - Don't trigger your biological defaults (defense mode)]]
		- If you got some results you didn’t want, the world is telling you at least one of two things: (a) **you were unlucky**; (b) **your ideas about how things work were wrong**. If you were unlucky, trying again with the same approach should lead to a different outcome. When you repeatedly don’t get the outcomes you want, though, the world is telling you to update your understanding. And you have to accept that, and act accordingly. Remember: [[1-1a5b4.4 Real-time calibration (i.e., recalibration) lets you adapt to the changing landscape]].
			- Don't let that inertia fool you
				- [[2-1a6c 'Inertia' - In most ordinary moments the situation thinks for us, and these seemingly insignificant decisions compound.]]

- Sharif: "Musicians are the only craftspeople that get to _create something at the exact same time their audience consumes it_"
	- I think writing does the same
